Deaths Due To COVID-19 In The World Reaches 5 Million People

JAKARTA - The world's COVID-19 deaths surpassed the five million mark on Friday, according to Reuters data. It took the world more than a year to reach the first 2.5 million COVID-19 deaths during the pandemic, but the second 2.5 million was achieved in just under eight months. An average of 8,000 deaths were reported daily worldwide in the past week, or about five deaths per minute. More than half of the global death toll in that week's average came from the United States, Russia, Brazil, Mexico and India. The total death toll in the US on Friday crossed 700,000, the highest in the world.
While COVID-19 cases and hospitalizations in the US are trending down, the country's health authorities are bracing for a spike in winter when people are more active indoors. On the same day Russia reported 887 deaths, the country's highest daily figure for a year pandemic. South America is the region with the highest mortality rate in the world, accounting for 21 percent of all reported deaths. The region is followed by North America and Eastern Europe, which each account for more than 14 percent of all deaths, according to a Reuters analysis. , the death toll in India -- one of the countries hardest hit by the Delta variant -- has dropped dramatically from an average of 4,000 per day to less than 300 when the vaccination program was launched. Delta is now the world's dominant variant of the coronavirus and has been found in 187 of the 194 member countries of the World Health Organization (WHO). These variants have shown different vaccination rates high levels between rich and poor countries. World attention in recent days has focused on efforts to share vaccines with poor countries, where many people have not received the first dose. At the same time, people in wealthier countries are starting to be given booster doses. More than half of the world's population has not received a single dose of the COVID-19 vaccine, according to Our World in Data. WHO said this week that for the first time the COVAX program will distribute doses only to countries with the lowest vaccination rates. The vaccine sharing program since January has allocated most of the vaccine doses to more than 140 recipient countries in proportion to the population. assistant Director-General of WHO, in a recording of last week's conference presentation uploaded to the WHO's official website.

Germany mourns 100,000 COVID-19 deaths
Germany has become the latest country to pass the sad threshold. According to figures from the country's Robert Koch Institute, 100,000 people have now died of COVID-19. Behind every number is a name, and a person.
A year ago, Kerstin lost her 83-year-old father to COVID-19.
"I'm sure he knew that we were there," she said, telling DW of his final days in a hospital bed. "Even if I was only able to stroke his forehead with my gloved hand."
Kerstin lives in Düsseldorf — 600 kilometers (about 370 miles) from her parents, who were based in Berlin. Despite the virus' infectiousness and strict social distancing restrictions, the hospital called to say a final visit was possible. To Kerstin, the oldest daughter, the choice was clear.
"I at least wanted to say goodbye to my father," she said. With her son, she got in her car and drove to Berlin to spend 10 minutes with him. "We were head-to-toe in plastic," she remembered. Her father died the next day.
He had been taken into hospital with tuberculosis and only contracted the coronavirus later, probably from a doctor who was treating him. Now he is one of Germany's 100,000 people — according to figures from the Robert Koch Institute for Disease Control — who has since officially died from the illness. Kerstin's memories prompt laughter and tears, as she recalls her father's life and the randomness of his death.
Caregivers have also suffered.
Nurses have been struggling in the pandemic, seeing people being put on ventilators with their health deteriorating."We're all afraid of dying," caregiver Rita Kremers told DW.
One of her colleagues died from the virus in the ICU, she said, six weeks after infection. "It really hits you when it's a person you knew who dies," she said.
COVID, death and mourning in Germany: 'No one should have to die alone'
People have been dying lonely deaths in nursing homes and hospitals around Germany due to coronavirus pandemic and restrictions on close contact. It has been devastating for those they leave behind.
"We weren't allowed to ride in the ambulance with him or enter the hospital. We couldn't talk to his doctors. It was horrific," says Silke Kleibömer, recalling the day her father was rushed to the hospital — April 28, his birthday. He was "terrified," says his daughter, "he knew his life was coming to an end."
Hans-Jürgen had a pulmonary disease and had been on oxygen for years. He was doing so poorly that the family called paramedics. He died in the hospital's intensive care unit (ICU) just seven days later.
During the first phase of the coronavirus pandemic hospitals and nursing homes imposed restrictions and bans on outside contact. After a loosening of rules over the summer, they are once again getting stricter as infection rates rise. State and federal governments say they are committed to protecting at-risk individuals in hospitals and nursing homes.
Rapid testing is to be implemented to facilitate visiting regulations, as restrictions don't just affect COVID-19 patients. They also affect people like Silke Kleibömer's father Heinz-Jürgen.
In the hospital, doctors found that he had pneumonia. Silke Kleibömer says it was impossible to talk with her father on the telephone. "We called him every day, for about 10 or 20 seconds," she says — after that he was out of breath. "Anyone who has ever suffered shortness of breath knows that it's deadly terrifying," she adds.
'He didn't want to go'
When Silke's mother called the hospital to find out what the family should expect, she was harangued by a doctor who yelled at her that they didn't have the time to talk with every relative who called. When the father was moved  into intensive care, no one bothered to inform the family. Silke Kleibömer, who runs an outpatient nursing service herself, says she can't understand such attitudes: "Then you have to delegate. We're just talking about making time for a phone call here."
Indignant, Kleibömer called and demanded to speak with the ICU's on-duty doctor and told him: "We're coming right now." When they got there, she and her mother got to see her father "It was hard to understand him but he had all his faculties …" Silke Kleibömer stops and begins to cry. She excuses herself and says, "He told us he loved us. He was so strong, he looked me straight in the eye and told me not to cry. My dad fought so hard. He didn't want to go."
'Papa waited for us'
Visits were possible in ICU but only for one person and only for a maximum of one hour each day. Still, the staff were accommodating.
That was also the case on May 5, when alarms began ringing at her father's bed. The call came from the hospital, saying: "You have to come now! Hurry!" Silke Kleibömer picked up her mother and rushed to the hospital. They assembled there at his side, wife, daughter, and three grandchildren: "Papa waited for us. We could all be with him. We are so grateful to the ICU staff. We weren't really supposed to be there."
She says the doctor told her "every colleague decides for themselves," adding that they may not have been so lucky on another day. She knows how fortunate she and her family were, saying: "We got to hold his hand." Then her father quickly and peacefully passed away, "You could see the relief on his face."
The coronavirus and its victims - How COVID-19 has changed how we die
Nearly 80,000 people have died of COVID-19 since the coronavirus pandemic hit Germany. Behind every statistic lies a sad personal story about the fates of individuals and their families.
One terrible thing about COVID-19 is not just that people are dying of it, but the circumstances in which they die. A COVID-19 death often occurs in isolation, behind closed doors. How can we cope with this? Reporters Nicola Albrecht and Susann von Lojewski examine how COVID-19 has changed our experience of death. They speak to people who have lost loved ones, such as Manu, who lost his fiancée Brittanya to COVID-19 - she was just 29. Posting on Instagram from her sickbed, rapper Brittanya gave herself and her fans confidence to fight the battle against the virus. She died a few days later. Ralf Brepohl lost his mother and has been asking himself ever since whether he was the one who infected her. He says that he would never forgive himself. Often, intensive care workers are the last people allowed to accompany patients who are sick and dying of COVID-19. And even if they are now used to it, COVID-19 is pushing them to the limit. Nurse Celine Pinkau from Senftenberg describes the moment she had to put a patient she’d grown fond of into a clinically sealed body bag. "I cried. I thought, ‘Where is the humanity in this? Where is the dignity?’" Hospital chaplains like Stefan Pfeifer are not always able to comfort bereaved family members. He is worried that being unable to say goodbye to their loved ones will take a major emotional toll on them. The film shows how COVID-19 has brutally disrupted our death rituals and asks how we can give as much dignity as possible to the dying, also in the time of the coronavirus.

The global death toll from COVID-19 topped 5 million on Monday, less than two years into a crisis that has not only devastated poor countries but also humbled wealthy ones with first-rate health care systems.
Together, the United States, the European Union, Britain and Brazil — all upper-middle- or high-income countries — account for one-eighth of the world’s population but nearly half of all reported deaths. The U.S. alone has recorded over 745,000 lives lost, more than any other nation.
“This is a defining moment in our lifetime,” said Dr. Albert Ko, an infectious disease specialist at the Yale School of Public Health. “What do we have to do to protect ourselves so we don’t get to another 5 million?”
The death toll, as tallied by Johns Hopkins University, is about equal to the populations of Los Angeles and San Francisco combined. It rivals the number of people killed in battles among nations since 1950, according to estimates from the Peace Research Institute Oslo. Globally, COVID-19 is now the third leading cause of death, after heart disease and stroke.
The staggering figure is almost certainly an undercount because of limited testing and people dying at home without medical attention, especially in poor parts of the world, such as India.
Canadians should get COVID-19 vaccine boosters? NACI updates guidelines
Which Canadians should get COVID-19 vaccine boosters? NACI updates guidelines – Oct 29, 2021
Hot spots have shifted over the 22 months since the outbreak began, turning different places on the world map red. Now, the virus is pummeling Russia, Ukraine and other parts of Eastern Europe, especially where rumors, misinformation and distrust in government have hobbled vaccination efforts. In Ukraine, only 17% of the adult population is fully vaccinated; in Armenia, only 7%.
“What’s uniquely different about this pandemic is it hit hardest the high-resource countries,” said Dr. Wafaa El-Sadr, director of ICAP, a global health center at Columbia University. “That’s the irony of COVID-19.”
Wealthier nations with longer life expectancies have larger proportions of older people, cancer survivors and nursing home residents, all of whom are especially vulnerable to COVID-19, El-Sadr noted. Poorer countries tend to have larger shares of children, teens and young adults, who are less likely to fall seriously ill from the coronavirus.
India, despite its terrifying delta surge that peaked in early May, now has a much lower reported daily death rate than wealthier Russia, the U.S. or Britain, though there is uncertainty around its figures.
The seeming disconnect between wealth and health is a paradox that disease experts will be pondering for years. But the pattern that is seen on the grand scale, when nations are compared, is different when examined at closer range. Within each wealthy country, when deaths and infections are mapped, poorer neighborhoods are hit hardest.
In the U.S., for example, COVID-19 has taken an outsize toll on Black and Hispanic people, who are more likely than white people to live in poverty and have less access to health care.
WARSAW, Poland (AP) — Poland on Tuesday became the latest European nation to record 100,000 deaths related to coronavirus, a sad milestone that comes as the country braces for a surge of infections fueled by the omicron variant.
Nearly a quarter of those deaths — some 24,000 — occurred in the most recent wave of infection that began in October, a period in which vaccines have been widely available in the European Union nation of 38 million people.
Health Minister Adam Niedzielski said Tuesday that 493 more people with COVID-19 had died, pushing the overall pandemic death toll to 100,254 in the central European nation.
The bleak marker comes as daily new infections have fallen following a peak in what officials call the country's “fourth wave” of COVID-19 driven by the delta variant. But with the omicron variant spreading, another large infection wave is looming.
The first two deaths from omicron were reported Monday, both in elderly and unvaccinated people.
Niedzielski said over 18,000 COVID-19 patients are hospitalized, making this “the most difficult situation compared to other waves.”
Poland has struggled through the pandemic with a health care sector strapped by limited funding and the emigration of many medical professionals to Western Europe in the past two decades.
According to OECD statistics, Poland is the EU nation with the lowest number of working doctors in proportion to its population — just 2.4 to 1,000 inhabitants compared with 4.5 in Germany. Poland also has only 5 nurses to 1,000 inhabitants, below the EU average of 8 and far below richer countries like Germany, which has 14.
The vast majority of COVID-19 deaths in the last wave — 83% — are of unvaccinated people. Among people under 44, more than 90% of those who died were not vaccinated.
The vaccination rate in Poland is nearly 56% — much lower than countries in Western Europe but much higher than some other central European countries like Bulgaria and Romania.
Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki's government has sought to encourage vaccinations but is also up against fears and hesitancy among some in the population — and sometimes among the governing Law and Justice party's own supporters.
In recent days, a school superintendent and party loyalist in the province surrounding Krakow, Barbara Nowak, said she opposed making vaccines compulsory for teachers, an idea supported by the health minister. She claimed that “the consequences of this experiment are not fully established."
Her words were sharply criticized by the health and education ministers and medical professionals, but the education minister has refused calls for her dismissal.
Poland now joins Russia, the U.K., Italy, France and Germany as European nations that have recorded over 100,000 deaths.
COVID-19 cases are growing exponentially in India. As this new wave sweeps the nation of more than 1 billion, hospitals are running out of oxygen tanks and room to house patients.
And the COVID-19 death count keeps climbing, to the point where authorities are holding mass cremations.
India recorded 379,308 new coronavirus cases on Wednesday, according to data from Johns Hopkins University. That same day, 3,645 COVID-related deaths were also recorded.
India now holds the second-highest COVID-19 case count in the world — more than 18 million — since the pandemic started, with the U.S. in the top spot with more than 32 million confirmed cases since last year.
COVID situation in India going from bad to worse: Health official
Health ministry tells states to get a grip on lax prevention measures ‘right now’ to prevent healthcare systems from being overwhelmed by surge in cases. The situation with the COVID-19 pandemic in India is going “from bad to worse,” a senior government official has said.
“We are facing an increasingly severe and intense situation, more so surely in some districts. But the whole country is potentially at risk,” Vinod K Paul, chairman of the government’s expert panel on vaccine administration said at the weekly health ministry briefing on Tuesday.
India on Wednesday reported 53,480 new cases of the coronavirus, health ministry data showed – the second day that cases have risen less than the day before.
But the number of deaths was at its highest since mid-December, according to a Reuters news agency tally, with 354 people dying of the coronavirus in the last 24 hours, the ministry said, taking total mortalities to 162,468.
India has been reporting a spike in cases this month, with its richest state of Maharashtra, home to the financial capital of Mumbai, accounting for most of its caseload.
More than 68,000 new coronavirus cases were reported on Monday, the highest in a single day in five months. On Tuesday, at least 56,000 fresh cases were reported across India, with Maharashtra accounting for more than 31,000 of them.
China imposes new curbs amid worst COVID outbreak in two years
About 17 million people are placed under lockdown in the wake of worst COVID outbreak in two years.

China has placed about 17 million residents under lockdown, as virus cases doubled nationwide to nearly 3,400 and anxiety mounted over the resilience of its ‘zero-Covid’ approach in the face of the worst outbreak in two years.
The southern tech hub of Shenzhen – home to about 13 million people – told all residents to stay at home as it struggles to eradicate an Omicron flare-up linked to the neighbouring virus-ravaged city of Hong Kong.
The lockdown and a suspension of public transport will last until March 20, a city government notice said, adding that it would launch three rounds of mass testing.
A nationwide surge in cases has seen authorities close schools in Shanghai, China’s biggest city, and lock down northeastern cities, as almost 18 provinces battle clusters of the Omicron and Delta variants.
The city of Jilin – centre of the outbreak in the northeast – was partially locked down on Saturday, while residents of Yanji, an urban area of nearly 700,000 bordering North Korea, were confined to their homes on Sunday.
China, where the virus was first detected in late 2019, has maintained a strict “zero-COVID” policy, enforced by swift lockdowns, travel restrictions and mass testing when clusters have emerged.
But the latest flare-up, driven by the highly transmissible Omicron variant and a spike in asymptomatic cases, is testing the efficacy of that approach.
Zhang Yan, a Jilin health commission official, conceded that the response from local authorities had been lacking.
“The emergency response mechanism in some areas is not robust enough,” he said at a press briefing on Sunday.
“There is insufficient understanding of the characteristics of the Omicron variant … and judgement has been inaccurate.”
Residents of Jilin have completed six rounds of mass testing, with the city reporting more than 2,200 cases of the Omicron variant since Saturday.
The neighbouring city of Changchun – an industrial base of nine million people – was locked down on Friday, while at least three other small cities have been locked down since March 1.
The mayor of Jilin and the head of the Changchun health commission were dismissed from their jobs on Saturday, state media reported, in a sign of the political imperative placed on local authorities to contain virus clusters.
Hong Kong’s Covid Death Rate Now One of the World’s Highest
City reports 117 new Covid deaths on Tuesday as outbreak grows
Hong Kong’s oldest are the least vaccinated, most vulnerable
Hong Kong’s Covid-19 fatality rate is now the highest in the developed world amid a wave of deaths among its under-vaccinated elderly population, ramping up pressure on officials to get the city’s worst outbreak since the pandemic began under control.
The financial hub averaged eight deaths per 1 million people in the 10 days through Monday, the most among advanced economies, according to Bloomberg calculations based on Johns Hopkins University data.
While most major Western countries are past the peak of their latest wave of infections and aren’t reporting a high number of fatalities, Hong Kong’s current ratio is about to surpass the nine deaths per 1 million that the U.S. recorded at the peak of its omicron wave in late January.
Hong Kong reported a record of 117 new deaths Tuesday. Most of the fatalities during the current wave have been elderly people, and 91% of those who died weren’t double vaccinated, according to government data released Sunday.
The city’s death toll is likely to keep climbing as the outbreak spreads through a growing number of care facilities, a sector which in many places has accounted for a disproportionate share of Covid fatalities. More than 600 care homes in Hong Kong are experiencing outbreaks, with 3,150 residents and about 900 staff infected. Almost 75,000 elderly and disabled people live in residential facilities in Hong Kong.
More than two years into the pandemic, scenes reminiscent of the chaotic days of early 2020 are now playing out in Hong Kong. The health-care system is overwhelmed, patients are being put outside hospitals on gurneys, public morgues are inundated, and there’s speculation the city may go into a lockdown.
The situation is at risk of worsening. Authorities announced more than 32,000 cases on Tuesday. Hong Kong might have seen as many as 2.86 million infections since the start of the current outbreak, according to an updated forecast from the Laboratory of Data Discovery for Health and the University of Hong Kong’s WHO Collaborating Center for Infectious Disease Epidemiology and Control. The wave is expected to peak in the coming week or so, while the cumulative number of deaths by the end of April could be around 4,645.
Myocarditis risk higher after Covid infection than Pfizer or Moderna vaccination, CDC finds
People infected with Covid-19 face a higher risk of myocarditis and other inflammatory heart conditions than those vaccinated against the disease, according a large study published by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention on Friday.
The CDC found the risk of myocarditis, pericarditis and multisystem inflammatory syndrome was higher after Covid infection than after Pfizer or Moderna vaccination in males and females ages 5 and older. However, these cardiac conditions are rare after infection and vaccination alike, according to the CDC.
Myocarditis is an inflammation of the heart muscle and pericarditis is an inflammation of the outer heart lining. Multisystem inflammatory is a condition associated with Covid infection that affects multiple organ systems.
Pfizer and Moderna’s vaccines have been associated with an elevated risk of myocarditis and pericarditis after the second dose, particularly among boys ages 12- to 17-years-old. However, even in this group the risk of myocarditis and pericarditis was higher after Covid infection than after vaccination, according to the CDC.
Among teenage boys, the rate of myocarditis or pericarditis after infection was at least 50 cases per 100,000 people, compared to at least 22 cases per 100,000 after the second vaccine dose. The overall risk of heart conditions after Covid infection was up to 5.6 times higher compared to the second vaccine dose. The risk was up to 69 times higher after infection compared to the first shot.
The CDC examined the electronic health records of more than 15 million people ages 5 and older across 40 health-care systems from Jan. 2021 through Jan. 2022. Scientists studied the risk of developing a cardiac condition after a Covid infection compared to the first and second doses of Pfizer and Moderna’s vaccines. The study excluded booster doses from the comparison.
Overall, the risk of a heart issue after Covid infection was anywhere from 2 to 115 times higher compared to vaccination depending on age, gender and the dose administered.
In February, the CDC said males age 12- to 39-years-old should consider waiting eight weeks between the first and second dose of the Pfizer or Moderna vaccines to reduce the risk of myocarditis. Canadian public health authorities had found that the rate of myocarditis after Pfizer or Moderna vaccination was higher when the time between the first and second dose was fewer than 30 days.
Moderna’s second dose appears associated with a higher risk of myocarditis than Pfizer’s, according to data presented to the CDC’s committee of vaccine experts in February. Public health authorities in Ontario, Canada have found that the rate of myocarditis was 5 times higher for males ages 18-24 following a second dose of Moderna compared to Pfizer.
However, the overwhelming majority of people who developed myocarditis after vaccination recovered fully and most of them did not report any effect on their quality of life, according to a CDC survey of health-care providers presented at the February meeting.
Data shows more children are getting sick and dying from Covid
While young children made up a very small portion of Covid deaths, September had the most new cases and deaths for kids
As the federal government appears ready to approve Covid-19 vaccines for children ages 5 to 11, data shows that September was the country’s worst month for new cases and deaths.
Data from the American Academy of Pediatrics shows that cases among children peaked in September, as many schools opened for in-person classes amid the country’s delta variant Covid surge. More than 6 million children have tested positive for Covid since the beginning of the pandemic, with more than 1.1 million new cases recorded from Sept. 3 to Sept. 30.
The American Academy of Pediatrics obtains its data from individual states, which have varying definitions of “child.” Some include 19-year-olds, and West Virginia includes people up to age 20.
Only a small proportion of young children with Covid get severely ill or die. Though weekly data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention shows that Covid deaths among children under age 15 also reached its highest level in September, only 41 children died of Covid from Sept. 4 to Oct. 2.
The world's worst coronavirus outbreak may have claimed as many as 5 million lives in India
India’s actual death toll from Covid-19 could range between 1.3 million to a staggering 5 million, with even the most conservative estimate putting its tally at more than double the U.S., the highest recorded in the world so far.The numbers, derived from research models and local authority data, range from three to 10 times the country’s official count, adding to evidence that the true cost of India’s outbreak has been massively under-reported.As corpses floated in the Ganges and crematoriums and graveyards were overwhelmed, skepticism grew over the death toll of around 420,000 recorded by the government, which has used the ostensibly low mortality rate to defend India’s Covid track record.
Last week, the Southern African country of Namibia recorded the highest average rate of infections in the world, reported The Telegraph. Almost half of Namibia’s total COVID-19 cases have come in the last two months.
Namibia’s third — and deadliest — wave of outbreaks has been driven by the delta variant, per The Telegraph.
The country has recorded more than 1,000 new coronavirus cases every day since June 15, per data from John Hopkins University.
Mohammed Patel, a local paramedic, spoke to CNN about the straining health care system.
“Delta has caused a whole lot of chaos, a whole lot of patients are suffering, their oxygen levels are dropping drastically daily — there are patients that are suffering and there is no space in hospital, there is no ventilators available,” Patel said. “It’s complete chaos.”
According to Dr. Yakub Essack, the medical coordinator of a charity called Gift of Givers, the situation in Namibia is unlike any emergency situation he’s ever dealt with.

“The difference is when you go to a war zone or a natural disaster, you have an idea of the level of damage, what the disaster is,” he said per CNN. “But this is very unpredictable. We have never seen anything like this before.”
In Thailand, coronavirus cases and deaths have more than doubled this week compared to last week, said Newsweek. Friday, the country reported more than 9,000 new cases and 72 new deaths, per Yahoo News. The health care system has begun to buckle under the increased demand.
Since the start of the pandemic, Thailand has recorded 317,506 COVID-19 cases and 2,534 deaths, reported Newsweek.
About 90% of Thailand’s cases and deaths have come since April — a tenfold increase, per Bloomberg.
The archipelago nation has now imposed a partial lockdown, but the restrictions are too little too late, said Newsweek. Cases are expected to continue rising.
Over the last two weeks, COVID-19 cases in Tunisia have increased by 138% to hit all-time highs, according to Our World in Data. Friday, Tunisia reported 9,823 new cases and 134 new deaths Thursday, per WHO data.
The North African country of 12 million people has a total caseload of more than 464,000 cases — and rapidly increasing, reported Al Jazeera.
“We are in a catastrophic situation,” Nisaf Ben Alaya, a Tunisia health ministry spokesperson, said, per Al Jazeera. “The health system collapsed.”
“We are struggling to provide oxygen. … Doctors are suffering from unprecedented fatigue,” she said to Al Jazeera.
The country has reimposed a total lockdown across most of the country and a partial lockdown on the capital, according to Al Jazeera. So far, only 4% of the population has received a coronavirus vaccination.
By absolute numbers, Indonesia’s outbreak is large and deadly. Previously called a coronavirus “time bomb,” the world’s fourth most populous country is being devastated by the current surge in cases, reported the Deseret News.
Wednesday, Indonesia recorded more than 34,000 new cases and 1,000 new deaths — a record high for the country, per The Guardian.
Daily case numbers have continued to climb, reaching more than 38,100 cases on Thursday, per WHO data.
Officials fear that daily cases could reach 70,000 before the peak of the current outbreak wave, said The Guardian.
Hospitals have begun running low on — or completely out of — necessary oxygen. Some hospitals have temporarily closed or turned patients away due to staff and supply shortages, said The Guardian. One hospital even began using the front yard to treat emergency patients while using the building to isolate COVID-19 patients.
“This is not an easy situation. We are not fine,” health ministry spokeswoman Siti Nadia Tarmizi told The Guardian.
Michael Lang, an 18-year-old who grew up in a close-knit community in La Grange, Illinois, was ready for the next chapter in his life: college.
The teen, who loved the outdoors and fishing, wasn't anxious about heading off to the University of Dayton during the pandemic.
His mother, Kady Lang, told ABC News she wasn't "overly concerned" either. Students were tested before going to campus per university policy, and many of Michael's friends had COVID-19 in July and recovered within several weeks, she said.
"Hearing about all these other kids that were fine from it, it was more the older generation that seemed to be heaving a harder time," she said.
But within months, Michael Lang contracted COVID-19 and died.
'He didn't act sick'
Michael Lang, the excited new college student who hoped to become an entrepreneur, arrived on the University of Dayton's Ohio campus in early August.
By Labor Day, Michael Lang had COVID-19 symptoms. He couldn't taste or smell, and isolated himself in his room, his mother said.
He wasn't tested at school, according to Kady Lang. University spokeswoman Cilla Shindell told ABC News that symptomatic students are tested and that students also undergo "random surveillance testing."
After quarantining for 10 days, he left campus on Sept. 13 and returned to his parents' house to study remotely from a quarantined room.
"He was acting normal, he didn't act sick," his mother said.
After a few days at home, Michael took a PCR COVID-19 test at a CVS drive-thru. On Sept. 21, he learned the result was negative, his mother said.
But days later, Michael suffered cardiac arrest. He was found to have myocarditis -- an inflammation of the heart muscle, Kady Lang said.
To his mother, it came without warning -- the day before he'd gone outside and played a little basketball. The only thing that struck her as odd was he complained he was itchy.
"I still didn't think anything of it since two days before he was negative on the COVID test," she said.
Chris Cramer, Corporate Communications Senior Director at CVS told ABC News, "Patient samples collected at our COVID-19 drive-thru testing sites are sent offsite to independent, third-party labs that are responsible for processing the results. While we cannot comment on the accuracy rate of a third party lab’s test results, PCR tests such as the ones used by the labs on the samples collected at our drive-thru testing sites are considered to be more accurate than any other type of diagnostic testing for COVID-19 that is currently available."
An ambulance took the teen to the hospital where he tested positive for COVID-19, she said.
An undated photo of Michael Lang and his family.
Michael Lang went into a coma and spent four weeks in multiple hospitals. He died on Oct. 22.
"Michael loved life," his mother said, overcome with emotion. "He was really just a loving kid that just got shortchanged."
"He showed gratitude to people and he was really respectful," she said. "I'm just proud of him as a parent. He was a good boy and he appreciated his life. He didn't take it for granted. And he wanted to live a full life."
Michael had no preexisting conditions and had never been in the hospital prior to COVID-19, his mother said.
"It's a horrible, horrible, horrible disease. And kids really don't get it because they don't see as much with their peers," she said.
"Eighteen years old and his future ahead of him," his mother said. "That part of it is hard to wrap our brains around -- that he won't be with us any longer."
COVID’s true death toll: much higher than official records
https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-022-00708-0
Modelling suggests that by the end of 2021, some 18 million people had died because of the pandemic.
The number of people who have died because of the COVID-19 pandemic could be roughly three times higher than official figures suggest, according to a new analysis1.
The study, published on 10 March in The Lancet, says that the true number of lives lost to the pandemic by 31 December 2021 was close to 18 million. That far outstrips the 5.9 million deaths that the study says were reported to various official sources for the same period. The difference is down to significant undercounts in official statistics, owing to delayed and incomplete reporting and a lack of data in dozens of countries.
The loss of life “is much higher than simply assessed by reported COVID-19 deaths in most countries”, says study co-author Haidong Wang, a demographer and population-health expert at the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation (IHME) in Seattle, Washington. “Understanding the true death toll from the pandemic is vital for effective public health decision-making.”
Diabetes risk rises after COVID, massive study finds
Even mild SARS-CoV-2 infections can amplify a person’s chance of developing diabetes, especially for those already susceptible to the disease.
People who get COVID-19 have a greater risk of developing diabetes up to a year later, even after a mild SARS-CoV-2 infection, compared with those who never had the disease, a massive study1 of almost 200,000 people shows.
The research, published in The Lancet Diabetes & Endocrinology earlier this month, is one of a growing number of studies2 showing that COVID-19 can increase a person’s risk of diabetes, months after infection.
“When this whole pandemic recedes, we’re going to be left with the legacy of this pandemic — a legacy of chronic disease” for which health-care systems are unprepared, says study co-author Ziyad Al-Aly, chief researcher for the Veterans Affairs (VA) St Louis Healthcare System in Missouri.
Given the extraordinary number of COVID-19 cases globally — 480 million confirmed cases and counting — the modest increase in diabetes risk could correspond to a drastic rise in the number of people diagnosed with the disease worldwide, if the observed trends hold true, says Jonathan Shaw, an epidemiologist at the Baker Heart and Diabetes Institute in Melbourne, Australia.
But the findings might not translate to other groups of people. The US veterans in the study were mostly older, white men, many of whom had elevated blood pressure and were overweight, putting them at high risk of developing diabetes, says Gideon Meyerowitz-Katz, an epidemiologist studying diabetes at the University of Wollongong in Australia. But that risk is much lower in younger people, he says, and higher in some other ethnic groups.
And it’s possible that some people in the control group had undetected mild or asymptomatic COVID-19 but were never tested, potentially skewing the data, Al-Aly adds.
Other factors might also be contributing to the apparent rise in diabetes among people who recovered from COVID-19, says Shaw. Existing cases of diabetes might have gone undetected until people sought medical care for COVID-19.
Daily US death toll from Covid now matches Delta
The number of Americans dying each day from Covid-19 now stands as high as it did during the Delta variant's peak, a grim figure that experts believe will rise.
Statistics show that an average of over 2,000 people are dying from the virus in the US every day, roughly on par with the deaths seen in late September.
A large portion of the dead are older than 65 years old or unvaccinated.
To date, more than 866,000 people have died of Covid-19 in the US.
According to statistics from Johns Hopkins University, the daily average of confirmed Covid-19 deaths surpassed 2,000 on 21 January and stood at 2,033 on 23 January.
That's just short of where it was at the peak of the surge in Delta variant cases in September.
But there are many more people in hospital now due to the virus than there were back then, due to much higher case loads.
The average daily number of new confirmed cases in the US far surpasses previous waves.

Why the higher death toll?
Dr Abraar Karan, an infectious disease doctor at Stanford University, told the BBC that the high death toll is largely a factor of the high hospitalisation rate, even if the symptoms of the Omicron variant are generally less severe than those of Delta.
"When you have a more transmissible virus, it would exponentialise the number of severe cases and deaths. Even if you have a low percentage of severe cases, the absolute number can still be quite high. A small percentage of a very large number is still a large number."
Data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) shows that a vast majority - as much as 75% - of those dying are older than 65.
There Is Nothing Normal about One Million People Dead from COVID
Mass media and policy makers are pushing for a return to pre-COVID times while trying to normalize a staggering death toll
A woman watches white flags on the National Mall in September 2021 in Washington, D.C. Over 660,000 white flags were installed here to honor Americans who have lost their lives to COVID-19 epidemic. Credit: Chen Mengtong/China News Service via Getty Images
Sometime in the next few weeks, the official death toll for the two-year COVID pandemic in the U.S. will reach one million. Despite being the wealthiest nation on the planet, the U.S. has continued to have the most COVID infections and deaths per country, by far, and it has the highest per capita death rate of any wealthy nation.
This is an unfathomable number of people dead, yet, mass media are downplaying it. This is despite an empathetic New York Times headline in May 2020 of “U.S. Deaths Near 100,000, an Incalculable Loss,” and using its entire front page to print names of some of the deceased. As Luppe B. Luppen noted on Twitter, the newspaper’s more recent headline was the cruel and callous “900,000 Dead, but Many Americans Move On.”
The Times is not alone; several large mainstream publications, in complicity with politicians of both major political parties, have been beating a death knell of a drum for getting “back to normal” for months. The effect is the manufactured consent to normalize mass death and suffering—to subtly suggest to Americans that they want to move on.
News media are helping to shape public opinion in order for business to return to the very circumstances that have created this ongoing crisis. A return to normal will allow profits to be reaped by people working relatively safely from their homes (the target audience of many news organizations’ advertisers) at the expense of people working or studying in person who are more vulnerable.
A few weeks ago, David Leonhardt, the writer of the Times’ newsletter “The Morning,” asked Michael Barbaro, the host of the company’s podcast “The Daily”: “If [COVID] is starting to look like a regular respiratory virus, is it rational [emphasis by the Times] to treat it like something completely different— to disrupt all our lives in all these big and consequential ways[?]”
I was dismayed. That rhetorical move is a familiar one to me: Two white men frame what they think is rational, deeming any questioning of their stand as irrational.
Meanwhile, some 140,000 children in the U.S. have lost a caregiver—about one in every 500 children. That is a big and consequential loss, and those children are probably not among the many who are ready to “move on” (another nearly one million Americans can’t move on because they’re already dead). During this pandemic, Black people have been disproportionately killed by this virus. About 50,000 people have died each month of COVID, meaning several Black children are being orphaned by SARS-CoV-2 this month, as you read this.
So is it rational? To be calling for the end of life-saving mitigation efforts and saying they harm children when so many have been orphaned here and worldwide?
Is it rational for Democrats, Republicans and much of the news media to press on towards what writer Tom Scocca calls a policy of “unlimited” COVID? The Democratically controlled state governments of California, New Jersey, New York and Connecticut all moved to drop indoor mask mandates just days after a near-record 3,958 people died of COVID on a single day, February 4. Even the White House reportedly has “begun hinting at an impending ‘new normal,’ in a conscious messaging shift meant to get people comfortable with a scenario where the virus remains widespread yet at more manageable levels.”
Is it rational, when as many people who died of AIDS in its worst year (near 50,000 in 1995) are dying every month of COVID, to think of the novel coronavirus as a “regular respiratory virus”—and to think that the big and consequential disruptions to worry about are mask wearing and ventilation, and not death and debilitation?
Is it rational to ignore the high communal viral load in American society and to not do more to lower it so that fewer people are exposed, become sick, transmit onwards and possibly die?
Is it rational for the Times to be advertising an event happening in March hosted by Leonhardt called “The New Normal, a Virtual Event on Life and Love After Omicron,” which might just coincide with the timing of the millionth American officially dying of COVID?
Well, it depends on what it is you are trying to rationalize.
If you’re trying to get people to accept that what the nation is doing right now is okay, and 50,000 deaths per month should be normalized, then it’s rational.
If you don’t want people to wonder why in just two years, the U.S. death toll for COVID is about 130 percent the size of the death toll of four decades of HIV—while global COVID deaths are less than 20 percent of the world’s AIDS deaths—then it’s rational.
If you want to manufacture consent for looser pandemic measures in the U.S. rather than more comprehensive ones as the communal viral rate demands, then making these claims is rational.
But it’s not ethical to manufacture what I call a viral underclass, and it’s incorrect to pretend as though the news media have no role in creating it nor in persuading the public that so many deaths are inevitable.
It’s a shame that major news outlets are talking more about moving on and returning to normal, and not running more pieces calling for an increase in government-funded mitigation efforts (more free high-quality masks and tests, upgraded ventilation in worksites and schools) to stem the tide of death. American norms (rampant incarceration, eviction, homelessness, lack of health care, poor ventilation and economic inequality) are fairly deadly as is.
Rushing for the “urgency of normal” is “wishful thinking,” epidemiologist Gregg Gonsalves wrote in the Nation. Intentionally or unintentionally, “the urgency of normal”—a phrase cropping up a lot lately—is evocative of a phrase Martin Luther King, Jr. used in his 1967 speech “Beyond Vietnam” at Riverside Church, where he preached about “the fierce urgency of now”:
“We are now faced with the fact that tomorrow is today. We are confronted with the fierce urgency of now. In this unfolding conundrum of life and history there is such a thing as being too late. Procrastination is still the thief of time.”
Intensive care doctor describes heartbreak watching two patients say goodbye to each other while holding hands
A Welsh intensive care consultant has described the emotional moment staff moved a patient's bed to another ward so they could hold their partner's hand as they died.
Detailing the lengths of care hospital staff are still providing despite covid pressures, Dr Chris Gough an intensive care consultant at the University Hospital of Wales in Cardiff, described the heartbreaking scene as "emotional for everyone".
He wrote in a tweet on Thursday morning: "Last night we moved a patient from one ward to another, so they could hold their partner’s hand as they died. Two hospital beds pushed together.
"Hands stretched out and holding each other. Emotional for everyone.
"We still provide the best care we can, despite everything."
I was there when he was born and he died in my arms': Dad tells heartbreaking story of son's Covid death in the hope of saving lives

'Just a few days and he would have had his jab. Now I’ve lost my son... my one and only son'

A father has spoken of his heartbreak following the death of his beloved son from Covid - four days before he was sent his vaccine invite.
Billy Nuttall, who lived in Bury, died in hospital aged just 24.
The Oxford graduate tested positive for Covid-19 days before people in his age group were invited to take up the vaccine.
"Just a few days and he would have had his jab," devastated dad Paul said.
"Now I’ve lost my son... my one and only son."
Within hours of testing positive, Billy developed breathing difficulties.
Later that same day, he was put into a medically-induced coma.
Now Paul is pleading with other young people to 'grab a jab'.
He hopes lives will be saved if Billy's tragic story is told.
Billy isolated and barely left his home in Bury for 18 months because he was at higher risk from Covid-19 due to his weight.
Paul said he was 'frightened to death of it'.
The history graduate, who was doing a Masters degree in politics at the University of Manchester, contracted the virus in June, before developing an infection while being treated in hospital.
Paul held his son's hand as he took his final breath at Manchester Royal Infirmary in July.
"I used to call him sunbeam, because when he walked in the room, he would light it up," Paul told the Manchester Evening News .
"He never excluded anybody.
"I was there when he was born and he died in my arms."
Billy went to the hospital with breathing problems on June 11.
He was told to self-isolate at home after he tested positive for coronavirus, four days before people aged 23 and 24 were invited to book their first jab.
He returned to the hospital on the morning of June 17 as he struggled to breathe. Five hours later, he was placed in a medically-induced coma.
"It was that quick," Paul added.
The 55-year-old visited his son on the afternoon of July 26, a day after a doctor called to tell him that Billy 'was doing all right' following a five-week stay in hospital, with plans to take him out of the coma.
But when Paul arrived, a doctor told him Billy had developed an infection.
Within a few hours, he was told to return immediately as Billy's condition had worsened.
"I got to the hospital and literally, within minutes, he went. He knew I was there," Paul said.
"I've had some knocks in my time, but by God that was a hard one.
"Just thinking about it now, I'm tearing up. He wasn't just my son, he was my best friend. We spoke every day.
"I just miss him. You can't begin to put into words what this is like.
"The pain will never get any less, you just get better at managing it."
Born in Bolton, rock-lover Billy obtained a black belt in karate and played rugby in Oxford, along with helping people with disabilities as he campaigned for a number of causes, his dad said.
"Because of who Billy was and what he did for other people - he’s saved countless students from suicide - several of his friends from Oxford came to me at the funeral and said that if it weren’t for Billy they wouldn’t have got their degrees," Paul added.
"If they fell behind, he’d help them get back on track, all while doing his own work.
"He always said ‘if it’s not me who helps, then who?’
"That’s the kind of person he was. He was ever so loving and ever so clever. A big giant softie, he was.
"We had him down for Prime Minister one day, or head of the United Nations. He was hell bent on helping people.
"He was a great believer in everyone getting an equal share - time, money, jobs. People should get their fair share, that was Billy all over.
"His overall goal was to, one day, work in a think tank.
"A light that burns twice as bright, burns half as long. And he was such a bright star."
Patty Laird, 65, Las Vegas: My friend Howard died from complications of covid-19, alone in a hospital in Summerlin, Nev., on March 24. Alone because no one was allowed to visit. He was a lifelong devotee of Chicago blues and an excellent drummer and harp player. He was also a dealer at a casino. Cards and dice. That’s probably how he was exposed to the virus. And, most likely, he went on to infect others. His first symptom was fatigue. Didn’t really feel sick. About 10 days later, he was gone.
If you needed help, a laugh or a hug, Howard was there. He was full of life and loved people. Shutting down the casinos and closing Las Vegas was the right thing to do. And I know if Howard were still here, that’s what he would say to anyone willing to listen.
32. Gaddy Noy, 34, New York: “Your mom’s test result came back positive for covid this evening,” I told a patient’s son, who was calling our emergency room to get an update on her health. His shocked silence carried the weight of many questions, concerns and fears he had for his mother. I am an emergency psychiatry physician working at a large [New York City] hospital, but even I am struggling to find the words to describe my experience. My hospital system is overwhelmed. A recent tally had 1,900 confirmed covid-19 patients currently admitted, 27 percent critically ill and 600 on ventilators in the intensive care unit. Out of 128 total patients in my hospital’s emergency room, 114 have covid-19 symptoms. At any one time I check, I see at least a handful of emergency room patients listed as “expired,” which is the medically preferred way of saying, “they’re dead.”
